                 Chicken Little

This story is very old and well known. I used it during literacy t get the children to read along with me. This is the story of a little chicken that thought the sky was falling down after an acorn fell on his head. He convinced many other animals including a duck and a fox that the sky was falling down.
The reason I used this story was because it had a simple pattern that the children could easily follow. This helped the less confident students become more comfortable in reading to me. Children found it easy to get into and once they understood the pattern they seemed to read this story more easily than others. The illustrations are extremely pleasing to the eye and help in keeping the story interesting. A nice quick read for all foundation stage children!

When I was really little, this was probably my favorite book. My mom always tells me that I would get her to read it to me (over and over and over...), but if she missed even a word, I would make her start again, because I knew the whole book by heart and wanted it read to me exactly as it was written! lol... That is so me!

I think the author cheated the fox out of a good meal. It was unrealistic.

Title: Chicken Little Author: Steven Kellog.

How would you describe the plot? A little chicken learns the importance of telling the truth.

How would you describe the characters? Farm animals personified so they're easier to relate to.

What is the main conflict? No one will listen to the little chicken.

What is the main theme? Remaining calm and not causing panic.

How would you describe the author’s style? This story is a classic and has been revisited many times over the years. This is just one of the versions that exist.

What point of view does the author use? Third person.

Share your thoughts on the design and layout of the book. I really enjoy the classics. This one was really nostalgic for me.

What lessons could you teach with this text? This would be a good book to practice identifying conflict and other parts of the story with.

Please provide at least two of the Arkansas State Standards you would use in a lesson.
RL.K.4 Craft and Structure. Ask and answer questions about unknown words in a text.

L.K.5 Vocabulary Acquisition and Use. With guidance and support from adults, explore word relationships and nuances in word meanings. L.K.5.A Sort common objects into categories (e.g., shapes, foods) to gain a sense of the concepts the categories represent.

What is your overall assessment of the book?
It's a classic that has survived throughout the years. I recommend it.