                           Double Jeopardy

I remember when I first heard about the Brenda Shaffer crime. Everyone in Louisville, I think, followed this one very closely because of the sheer horror. Mel Ignatow was accused of the sex murder of his ex fiance with the help of his former girlfriend. This happened in a house that backed up to my old high school. Everyone botched this case! He was not convicted for the crime because of a lack of evidence. However, he did later spend some time in jail for perjury against the court. Some time after he was found innocent contractors were in his old house putting in new carpet. In a heating duct they found some unprocessed film. Once it was developed there was the evidence they needed to prosecute him. The only problem is that once you have been found not guilty they cannot try you for the same crime again. This is so wrong, especially where they have evidence that proves beyond a shadow of a doubt that the crime really was committed. I didn't know these people, but I can truly say that I always was fascinated by the case and hated Mel Ignatow with a passion. He had tied Brenda to a glass coffee table where he carried out some of his torture. It is pure irony that when he died a couple of years ago, that he died after falling through a glass coffee table and bleeding to death

I have this sitting in the basement. It was written by a longtime local newspaper columnist and documents the most notorious murder case in Louisville's history. It happened about 20 years ago. An older man, Mel Ignatow, murdered a young receptionist with whom he was having a bizarre relationship and with the help of his other older girlfriend tried to get rid of the body. He was obviously guilty but somehow was acquitted and the city was outraged. Right after Ignatow was freed horrific pictures of the murder taken by the killer were found in the ductwork of his home, but because of double jeopardy he couldn't be retried for murder. However, he was put on trial for perjury related to the earlier trial, and convicted. After he died recently (after being released), Ignatow was arguably retired as the most hated man in the city with the capture and conviction of Cecil New, who a couple years ago killed and dumped a little Guatemalan boy into a garbage 
      From reading the papers through the years, I know the case fairly well but getting the whole thing in book form might make for guilty-pleasure lurid entertainment.
       
     Those of us from Kentuckiana were mortified, horrified, and stunned by this grisly murder. It didn't take too many degrees of separation to connect back to Brenda Sue Schaefer, Mel Ignatow, the contractors who ultimately found the evidence, the author Bob Hill, etc. The cast of characters, however, seems so different than we imagine living next door. At that time, typical citizens weren't getting breast implants, dripping with diamonds, riding around in new Corvettes, weekending locally on large boats etc. The women Ignatow chose didn't appear to fit this description either. They lived in modest homes and worked modest jobs. Yet with Ignatow's influence, they were soon treated to these extravagances. He was revealed as such a manipulative monster, with inexplicable power over these women. He never came clean, even getting a large local church behind him. Bob Hill provides a well researched, accurate account of this tragedy.
