                         The Columbia Anthology of Gay Literature


If you identify as a gay male, this presents the entire heritage of gay literature from ancient times to the present day. In here is just about everything, from obscure medieval stories such as the touching Amis and Amile, ribald, bawdy poetry of Roman Times, poems on love and longing, debates on romance from the Greek philosophers, the story of Lancelot and Galehaut from the Lancelot-Grail, German literature and psychology of the 19th century, romantic poetry of the Victorian era, 18th century French literature, and post-Stonewall free-form poetry, it's all here and more than you can conceive, printed in excerpts or in their entirety, in 800+ pages. There are many, many treasures to be found here for the gay male reader, and this is not only a must read for the gay reader, it is a must own. This book is spun from pure, refined gold. Thank you to Byrne R.S. Fone for editing and compiling this collection, it's going on to my top shelf in a place of honor.


It's amazing. That's all I can say so far.


This book is almost operatic in scale; from the most ancient to the most modern literary sources, it sweeps through the opus of gay and lesbian literary creation. In a field, and at a time, where the historical sexuality of writers is still so often censored (through omission or commission) by the whole chain of the academic and publishing and book sales industry, this work tells us what should REALLY be on the shelf in your local bookstore under "Gay and Lesbian" other than the current line-up of soft-core trash. Knowing a place in a tradition or a larger story of a community of ideas, is fundamental to every individual and community identity, and as a gay man, this volume made me even prouder of the intellectual and creative contribution men and women of my community have made....forever..! You don't need to read it from cover to cover (after all it contains an immense volume of material), but I am promising myself time to do just that as soon as possible. The pure pride of holding it in your hands and leafing through it, is worth every cent of the substantial cost.